# OSGi Licence Manager System

## Overview
This project aims to create a licence management system for OSGi plugins targeted initially at the 
Apache Karaf OSGi container (http://karaf.apache.org/). The intention is to support the complete
lifecycle of developing, selling and deploying a product based upon OSGi modules. 

The OSGi licence manager provides ReST api's which can be used with any shopping cart. However we have also
provided a shopping cart solution for Wordpress which demonstrates the use of the API and give a good workable 
solution out of the box.

The system uses the concept of Licence Specifications and Authenticators which are themselves distributed as bundles.

An Authenticator is a bundle which will not start up unless it is given a valid
licence by a Licence Manager service running in the same Karaf container. 
The validity of the licence is tested by against a private key signature held by the Authenticator. Developers can extend or 
otherwise include the generated Authenticator in the product code they wish to licence.

A Licence Specification is a bundle which provides the Licence Publisher with the keys to generate a new licence for a given product ID and a
set of user credentials (the Licence Metadata). This allows multiple keyed licences to be easily generated by a shopping cart
for different customers.

When a developer wishes to licence a product, they include the generation of Licence specifications and Authenticators
as part of their maven build process. To greatly simplify the development process, a maven Archetype is provided to 
give developers example code for generating the Licence Specifications and Authenticators.

# The OSGi Licence Manager  org.opennms.licencemanager

This project builds an OSGi licence manager bundle which can be deployed in a Karaf container.

The OSGi Licence Manager provides services to make it easy for a vendor/developer to use a shopping cart
 to create licences for a customer account. 
 
 It also provides services to make it easy for a customer to locally store licences (cut and paste) and for an Authenticator
 in customer/cient OSGi modules to request and verify a locally stored licence.
 
# Wordpress Easy Digital Downloads plugin edd-downloads-as-osgi

This project is a PHP plugin for Wordpress which extends the Easy Digital Downloads plugin
(https://easydigitaldownloads.com/)

This plugin allows users to purchase the right to generate software licences for their OSGi system 
in the same way they can purchase downloads. By extending this great EDD plugin, we benifit from using 
a well supported commercial gateway which integrates with paypal and has a lot of theme support in Wordpress.

The edd-downloads-as-osgi plugin uses the web services (ReST) inteface from the OSGi licence manager running in Karaf
as a backend to generate the licences.

# Licence Project Archetype osgi.licencemanager-archetype
Licence specifications and Authenticators are created and distributed by developers as OSGi modules. 
This maven archetype creates a new maven project for generating a Licence specification and a licence authenticator bundle

## Licence

All of the Java / OSGi modules in this project are licensed under the Apache 2 Licence
(This is to make the library widely usable with multiple OSGi projects and shopping carts)

All the Wordpress Plugins created in this project  are licensed under GPL V2+ 
(in accordance with Wordpress)